### The Effect of the Unexpected Change in U.S. Housing Market

The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the lives of millions of people around the globe. It showed how fragile human health is and that there are lacks in the health system. On the other hand, it has enabled us to quickly adapt technology to our daily life and gave the chance to maintain our business life from our home. It prepared the infrastructure for countless technological innovations and created many different occupations. Also, it showed the countries are more dependent to each other for raw materials, food and fuel because of globalization. These difficulties strain the economy, causing inflation to rise.

There has been some researchs on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the location demand for housing. They found that the pandemic has led to a shift in housing demand away from neighborhoods with high population density. They observed that neighborhoods with a greater share of telework-compatible jobs, more restaurants per capita, and higher pre-Covid-19 home prices witnessed a relative decline in home and rental prices and a relative increase in home inventory. They concluded as the smaller divergence in home price growth relative to that in home inventory and rent growth between central cities and suburbs suggest the market anticipates that future demand for central locations could bound back to some degree in the long run. However, there have been unexpected rent increases in metropolitan cities such as New York, London and Berlin since the time this study was published. As mentioned in The New York Times article “Why the Rent Is So High” by James Barron in August 2022, the typical New York City household spent about 20 percent of its income on rent in 1965, however, that number was close to 35 percent in 2022. This paper argues that the situation shows moving from neighborhoods with high population density is not just due to preferring to pay lower rent because of the decrease in the need to live close to workplaces, but also dueto the financial difficulties caused by the unexpected price increase in rents after Covid-19. In such cases, people may move to the suburbs even if they want to stay in the city. In the first research question, two YouTube videos which are “Why Rent In NYC Is Out Of Control Right Now” by CNBC Make it and “Why It’s So Expensive To Live In The U.S.” by CNBC focusing on the real estate related issues in New York and across the United States are examined. Sentiment analysis is made by using the subtitles. In the second research question, topic modeling is performed for various New York Times news focusing mainly on home and rental prices for the several months from February 2021 to August 2022. Topic modeling is done to observe what are topics or subjects that is mentioned related to New York rental difficulties, what tokens or words are most important in these topics, and to what extent it is about the identified topics, and this can be a mix (Corona, inflation etc.). In the last research question, Twitter web data scraping is done by focusing on certain keywords and it is aimed to observe whether people have a negative or positive feelings on this issue.
